# Data Ingestion
 - Ingestion means the process of getting the data into the data system that we are building or using.
 -  Different methods:
   - Read from file, and then place into data system.
   - Use web or other visual interfaces and enter video into system.
   - Such are valid for big data systems like airline reservation system.

## Ingestion infrastructure
  - Large scale system - would require more of automation in data ingestion.
  - Hence need for data ingestion.
  - Example:
    - 1. Hospital information system - (Precision medecine)
      - 1. 2 kindness of largeness assoc. with data
        - 1. Medical images are large. Report along is small but collection is large.
        - 2. Lot of patient data avail, but number of data sources (which is **the different departmental systems contributing to the total information system**) doesn't change over time.
        - 3. rate of data digestion is not enormous, proportional to number of patient activities that take place at the hospital.
        - 4. System has medical records - so no discarding data even when errors exits. Ways in whcih errors reduced:
          - Flag errors, retain Data - **Error handling policy**
            - subject to change depending on problem.
          - Error handling policy part of _**ingestion policy.**_
          - Another kind of ingestion policy -
            - what system should do if data rate sudden;y increases or decreases or becomes suspiciously low.
    - 2. Cloud based data store - Supports active comm. between members and store the same in real time.
      - 1. Store will have fast growing membership that will allow to capture and ingest Data.
      - 2. Over all members together, site will update at a really fast rate, implies that cloud based data store will be a large volume store with fast ingest rate.
      - 3. Primary challenge - keep up ingestion rate with data rate - hence erroneous data discarded when replaced.
      - 4. Handling of data overflow - use alternate store(site store) and ingest when data rate is slow. if site store gets full drop some incoming data at a rate of 0.1% at a time. 
