# Big Data Course 1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Week 1

### Summary

1. Describe the Big Data landscape including examples of real world big data problems and approaches.

2. Identify the high level components in the data science lifecycle and associated data flow.

3. Explain the V's of Big Data and why each impacts the collection, monitoring, storage, analysis and reporting, including their impact in the presence of multiple V's.

4. Identify big data problems and be able to recast problems as data science questions.

5. Summarize the features and significance of the HDFS file system and the MapReduce programming model and how they relate to working with Big Data.

### WHY BIG DATA?

- #### What launched in the big data era?  Video 1

  - **Objective:**

    1. Describe how the torrent of growing data and on demand computing has launched the Data Science field.

- #### What makes big data valuable? Video 2

  - **Objective:**

    1. Describe examples from fields where big data has enabled better models which allows for higher precision recommendations or solutions to make the world a better place.

      **Examples:**

      1. Big data allows us to build better models, which produce higher precision results.

        - We are witnessing hugely innovative approaches in how companies market themselves and sell products.

        - How human resources are managed. How disasters are responded to and many other applications where evidenced based data is being used to influence decisions.

      2. Big Data has enabled personalized Marketing

        - Big data enables you to hear the voice of each consumer as opposed to consumers at large.

        - The companies track our usage of the services provided by the company (mainly online websites) to target customers.

        - **How do the companies use this data and where?**

        - Recommendation Engine : One area we are all familiar with are the recommendation engines. These engines leverage user patterns and product features to predict best match product for enriching the user experience.

        - Sentiment Analysis : Analysis of the feelings around events and products.

        - Sentiment analysis is also called opinion mining because brands uses natural language processing to understand the review of users of the product to rate it as positive or negative or neutral of a person or public about a product.

        - Mobile Advertising :

            - Platforms utilize sensors such as GPS to give ads, discounts.

            - The kind of big data required for providing useful ads based on a customer location is:

              - Integration of consumer information with recent purchases through online and offline database.

              - ***Special big data - Larger type of big data - Geolocation of data is subset.***

      3. Global marketing (Collective Consumer behavior)

        - Done by using models that capture user behavior and allow businesses to target the right audience for their product.

        - Example:
            - Scheduling more flights based on the maximum collective consumer demand of flights at a particular duration of day (analysis of data trend for a week).

            - **It's possible to have collective consumer behavior with a filter such as the region of flight transport of maximum consumers so as to add similar flights in other geographical regions.**<br>

      4.  Biomedical applications (Life Science Industry)

            - Used in Genome sequencing technology to produce personalized medicine.

            - Sequence data generated demands between 2-40 exabytes of storage(10^18 bytes).

            - In personalized medical application - research advancements are seen in giving personalized treatment for patients with cancer of same stage apart from standard treatment plan for that stage.

            - **A big challenge in biomedical big data applications, like many other fields, is how we can integrate many types of data sources to gain further insight problem.**

      5. Smart cities:
            - Interconnected mesh of a large number of sensors that gather this data in real time and its analysis allows for better service quality to citizens

            - This analysis also helps in reducing unwanted effect such as pollution, traffic congestion,  better than optimal cost on delivering urban services.

***CONCLUSION : <br> Gather BIG DATA -> Analyse to generate models -> Gather further review -> generate precise models.</br>***

- #### Example: Saving lives with big data - Video 3

  - Common to all applications : Unique way of bringing together new models of data and computing research.

  1. #### Wildfire Analytics
    - **Why can big data help?**
      - Cuz of Data Streams which can be used for:
        - Devices carried by people.
        - Sensors and satellites - those that measure environmental factor.
        - Organizational data - Area maps, service updates and field content databases - used for registering amount of vegetation and other types of fuel in the way of the "potential" fire.
    - **What makes this a big data problem?**
      - Cuz it's possible to use novel approaches and responses if these data streams can be integrated.
    - **What is lacking in disaster management system?**
      - Dynamic system integration of real time sensor networks, satellite imagery, near real time data management tools, wildfire simulation tools, connectivity to emergency command centers and all these before, during and after a firestorm.
    - **Sources of the diverse data -**
      - Sensor data streaming from weather stations and satellites - includes - humidity, temperature, air pressure.
      - Image data streaming from mountaintop cameras and satellites (extension of sensor data streaming).
      - San Diego Supercomputer Center, which generate data related to wildfire modeling.
        - These include past and current fire perimeter maps put together by the authorities and fuel maps that tell us about the vegetation, and other types of fuel in a fire's path.
        - These types of data sources are often **static or updated at a slow rate**, but they provide valuable data that is well-curated and verified.
      - Social media data sources with photo resources - hardest sources to streamline during **existing** fire, but valuable when integrated with other data sources.
    - **After access/gathering -> Monitor/Visualize data**

    - 2 Components of Wild Fire analytics:
      1. Prediction - Wild storms can't be controlled but can be predicted by understanding the direction and rate of spread.
      2. Response - Provide corresponding response by integrating the data sources with real time analysis and predictive modeling to make contributions in predicting and responding to wildfire emergencies.
  2. Precision medicine -
     -  It is an emerging area of medicine targeted toward an individual person.
     - Analyzing her genetics, her environment, her daily activities so that one can detect or predict a health problem early, help prevent disease and in case of illness provide the right drug at the right dose that is suitable just for her.
     - Objective - Specify the Sensor, Organizational and people-generated data used in precision medicine. and explain why the integration of different kinds of data is critical in advancing healthcare.
     - For success of technology we need:
       - social economic environment, market demands, consumer readiness, cost effectiveness, all of which must work together.
     - _**Importance of big data for precision medicine:**_
       - Data Gathered and analyzed: Human genome - Genetic profile of a human - targeted diagnosis and treatment -
          - What makes it viable today? (Recent changes such as:)
              - Reduced cost analysis(cheap)
              - Time-efficient (abt a day to sequence a genome),
              - Digitalization of records
       - Key : Integrate data from various sources such as people sensors and organization:
         - Sensor data: Was: Real time use and then discarded. Now: These data stored and analyzed.
           - Example: Fitness device industry
             - Goal : Improve wellness.
             - 2-5Gb/data generated.
         - Organizations:
            - Public databases
              - NCBI - National Center for Biotechnology Information - created to capture the basic scientific data and knowledge for humans and other model organisms at the different building blocks of life.
                - Use: observations for diseases like cancer.
            - Knowledge bases:
                - Gene ontology and The Unified Medical Language System to assemble human knowledge in a machine processable form.
          - People generated data:
            - Mobile health apps:
              - Apps that monitor heart rates, BP, oxygen saturation levels.
              - Apps that not only incorporate sensors but also human interaction - **human sensors**
          - These data provide accurate and quality data from the patients to the doc.
          - Social media enables humans to provide more detailed and personal rate of impact of the drug - self reporting reactions and experience by people.
