# What is a Data Stream?
**(Refer slides simultaneously)**
- Velocity of data coming in various rates is a challenge of big data.
- Streaming Data Process Applications:  For some applications this presents the need to process data as it is generated, or in other words, as it streams.
  - It refers to a constant stream of data flowing through the resources for example data from a sensory machine or data from social media.
  - Application:
    - Social Media - Making data driven decisions using real time data from sales trends, social media analysis,sales distributions.
    - Monitoring of Industrial and  farming machinery in real time for monitering and detection of potential system failures.
    - any **sensor network** or **internet of things** environment controlled by another entity, or set of entities falls under this category. (Ex: FlightStats)

  - Data Stream Definition:
    - Stream is defined as a possibly unbounded sequence of data records / items that may or may not be related to or correlated with one another.
    - They can be time-stamped or geotagged.
    - Streaming data is sometimes referred to as event data as each data item is treated as an individual event in a synchronized sequence.
    - They are difficult to be used with tradiitional management architectures(cuz it used persistence, static data collections)
    - Streaming data management system cannot be seperated from real time processing of data as there is only one chance to look at it and process streaming data before more gets piled on
    - Capability of such system: Managing and processing data in motion.
    - The sheer size, variety and velocity adds more challenges to such systems.
    - Hence they are designed to manage relatively simple computations such as:
      - one record at a time or
      - a set of objects in short time window of most recent data.
    - Hence, the computations are done in near-real-time sometimes in memory and as independant computations
    - Processing components subsribe to a system or a stream source, non-interactively i.e. **they sent nothing back to the source, nor did they establish an interaction with the source**
  - Dynamic Steering:
    - The concept of dynamic steering involves dynamically changing the next steps or direction of an application through a continuous computational process using streaming.
    - It is a part of streaming data management and processing
    - Ex:Self driving car.
    - All streaming categories fall into this application.
    -  Examples in slides
